between them, both of which, according to
 their direction, were calculated to do us the most injury, by being
 made ahead, and thereby combining the speed of the two objects for the
 shock; to effect which, the exact manœuvres which he made were
 necessary. His aspect was most horrible, and such as indicated
 resentment and fury. He came directly from the shoal which we had just
 before entered, and in which we had struck three of his companions, as
 if fired with revenge for their sufferings.” Again: “At all events,
 the whole circumstances taken together, all happening before my own
 eyes, and producing, at the time, impressions in my mind of decided,
 calculating mischief, on the part of the whale (many of which
 impressions I cannot now recall), induce me to be satisfied that I am
 correct in my opinion.”
    Here are his reflections some time after quitting the ship, during
    a black night in an open boat, when almost despairing of reaching
    any hospitable shore. “The dark ocean and swelling waters were
    nothing; the fears of being swallowed up by some dreadful tempest,
    or dashed upon hidden rocks, with all the other ordinary subjects
    of fearful contemplation, seemed scarcely entitled to a moment’s
    thought; the dismal looking wreck, and _the horrid aspect and
    revenge of the whale_, wholly engrossed my reflections, until day
    again made its appearance.”
    In another place—p. 45,—he speaks of “_the mysterious and mortal
    attack of the animal_”.

Secondly: The ship Union, also of Nantucket, was in the year 1807
totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset, but the authentic
particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter,
though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual
allusions to it.

Thirdly: Some eighteen or twenty years ago Commodore J—— then
commanding an American sloop-of-war of the first class, happened to be
dining with a party of whaling captains, on board a Nantucket ship in
the harbor of Oahu, Sandwich Islands. Conversation turning upon whales,
the Commodore was pleased to be sceptical touching the amazing strength
ascribed to them by the professional gentlemen present. He peremptorily
denied for example, that any whale could so smite his stout
sloop-of-war as to cause her to leak so mu