been thinking over it ever
since, and that ha, ha’s the final consequence. Why so? Because a
laugh’s the wisest, easiest answer to all that’s queer; and come what
will, one comfort’s always left—that unfailing comfort is, it’s all
predestinated. I heard not all his talk with Starbuck; but to my poor
eye Starbuck then looked something as I the other evening felt. Be sure
the old Mogul has fixed him, too. I twigged it, knew it; had had the
gift, might readily have prophesied it—for when I clapped my eye upon
his skull I saw it. Well, Stubb, _wise_ Stubb—that’s my title—well,
Stubb, what of it, Stubb? Here’s a carcase. I know not all that may be
coming, but be it what it will, I’ll go to it laughing. Such a waggish
leering as lurks in all your horribles! I feel funny. Fa, la! lirra,
skirra! What’s my juicy little pear at home doing now? Crying its eyes
out?—Giving a party to the last arrived harpooneers, I dare say, gay as
a frigate’s pennant, and so am I—fa, la! lirra, skirra! Oh—

We’ll drink to-night with hearts as light,
    To love, as gay and fleeting
As bubbles that swim, on the beaker’s brim,
    And break on the lips while meeting.

A brave stave that—who calls? Mr. Starbuck? Aye, aye, sir—(_Aside_)
he’s my superior, he has his too, if I’m not mistaken.—Aye, aye, sir,
just through with this job—coming.




CHAPTER XL. MIDNIGHT, FORECASTLE


HARPOONERS AND SAILORS.
(_Foresail rises and discovers the watch standing, lounging, leaning,
and lying in various attitudes, all singing in chorus._)

Farewell and adieu to you, Spanish ladies!
Farewell and adieu to you, ladies of Spain!
    Our captain’s commanded.—

1ST NANTUCKET SAILOR.
Oh, boys, don’t be sentimental; it’s bad for the digestion! Take a
tonic, follow me!

(_Sings, and all follow._)
Our captain stood upon the deck,
    A spy-glass in his hand,
A viewing of those gallant whales
    That blew at every strand.
Oh, your tubs in your boats, my boys,
    And by your braces stand,
And we’ll have one of those fine whales,
    Hand, boys, over hand!
So, be cheery, my lads! may your hearts never fail!
While the bold harpooneer is striking the whale!

MATE’S VOICE FROM THE QUARTER-DECK.
Eight bells there, forward!

2ND NANTUCKET SAILOR.
Avast the chorus! Eight bells there! d’ye hear, bell-boy? Strike the
bell eight, thou Pip! thou bl