st, leaving a few inches of the
erect spar yet visible, together with long streaming yards of the flag,
which calmly undulated, with ironical coincidings, over the destroying
billows they almost touched;—at that instant, a red arm and a hammer
hovered backwardly uplifted in the open air, in the act of nailing the
flag faster and yet faster to the subsiding spar. A sky-hawk that
tauntingly had followed the main-truck downwards from its natural home
among the stars, pecking at the flag, and incommoding Tashtego there;
this bird now chanced to intercept its broad fluttering wing between
the hammer and the wood; and simultaneously feeling that etherial
thrill, the submerged savage beneath, in his death-gasp, kept his
hammer frozen there; and so the bird of heaven, with archangelic
shrieks, and his imperial beak thrust upwards, and his whole captive
form folded in the flag of Ahab, went down with his ship, which, like
Satan, would not sink to hell till she had dragged a living part of
heaven along with her, and helmeted herself with it.

Now small fowls flew screaming over the yet yawning gulf; a sullen
white surf beat against its steep sides; then all collapsed, and the
great shroud of the sea rolled on as it rolled five thousand years ago.




EPILOGUE.


“AND I ONLY AM ESCAPED ALONE TO TELL THEE.”

Job.

_The drama’s done. Why then here does any one step forth?—Because one
did survive the wreck._

_It so chanced, that after the Parsee’s disappearance, I was he whom
the Fates ordained to take the place of Ahab’s bowsman, when that
bowsman assumed the vacant post; the same, who, when on the last day
the three men were tossed from out the rocking boat, was dropped
astern. So, floating on the margin of the ensuing scene, and in full
sight of it, when the half-spent suction of the sunk ship reached me, I
was then, but slowly, drawn towards the closing vortex. When I reached
it, it had subsided to a creamy pool. Round and round, then, and ever
contracting towards the button-like black bubble at the axis of that
slowly wheeling circle, like another Ixion I did revolve. Till, gaining
that vital centre, the black bubble upward burst; and now, liberated by
reason 