druped. This peculiarity is
    most vividly hit by the French in the name they bestow upon that
    fish. The Romish mass for the dead begins with “Requiem eternam”
    (eternal rest), whence _Requiem_ denominating the mass itself, and
    any other funereal music. Now, in allusion to the white, silent
    stillness of death in this shark, and the mild deadliness of his
    habits, the French call him _Requin_.

Bethink thee of the albatross, whence come those clouds of spiritual
wonderment and pale dread, in which that white phantom sails in all
imaginations? Not Coleridge first threw that spell; but God’s great,
unflattering laureate, Nature.[6]

 [6] I remember the first albatross I ever saw. It was during a
 prolonged gale, in waters hard upon the Antarctic seas. From my
 forenoon watch below, I ascended to the overclouded deck; and there,
 dashed upon the main hatches, I saw a regal, feathery thing of
 unspotted whiteness, and with a hooked, Roman bill sublime. At
 intervals, it arched forth its vast archangel wings, as if to embrace
 some holy ark. Wondrous flutterings and throbbings shook it. Though
 bodily unharmed, it uttered cries, as some king’s ghost in
 supernatural distress. Through its inexpressible, strange eyes,
 methought I peeped to secrets which took hold of God. As Abraham
 before the angels, I bowed myself; the white thing was so white, its
 wings so wide, and in those for ever exiled waters, I had lost the
 miserable warping memories of traditions and of towns. Long I gazed at
 that prodigy of plumage. I cannot tell, can only hint, the things that
 darted through me then. But at last I awoke; and turning, asked a
 sailor what bird was this. A goney, he replied. Goney! I never had
 heard that name before; is it conceivable that this glorious thing is
 utterly unknown to men ashore! never! But some time after, I learned
 that goney was some seaman’s name for albatross. So that by no
 possibility could Coleridge’s wild Rhyme have had aught to do with
 those mystical impressions which were mine, when I saw that bird upon
 our deck. For neither had I then read the Rhyme, nor knew the bird to
 be an albatross. Yet, in saying this, I do but indirectly burnish a
 little brighter the noble merit of the poem and the poet.
    I assert, then, that in the wondrous bodily whiteness of the bird
    chiefly lurks the secret 